I think why front-end
development is different
is you have to work
with designers,
you've got to work
with product managers.
It's fundamentally
very collaborative.
It's got the right-brain
algorithmic thinking
and how to make
things performant
and work and then it's
got the left-brain.
How do you make things
usable and enjoyable to use?
I found my way into
front-end engineering and
now it's like I couldn't
imagine leaving it.
Hello, I'm Benedict Hobart.
People call me Benny. I'm a
software engineer at Meta.
I think a lot of
people that get into
front-end engineering,
they think about
front-end engineering
as an engineering problem
and you're building stuff,
you're solving a problem.
When you're doing is
building products for
people and you're helping
people solve their own problems.
There's a lot of collaboration
that comes with that,
working with designers,
working with PMs.
You're not some
programmer slouched
over a desk typing away all day.
It's highly
collaborative environment
you're stepping into.
I started when I
was fairly young
with building a fan website
for a game called EverQuest.
I first started making
websites around that time,
but I never really considered
it as a career path.
I actually left
building websites and
came back to it
later in university.
I think where I really actually
started treating it like
a career was in my second
year of university,
I had a cool cousin who was
a programmer then he
was like, "You should
do this subject."
What helped me
initially was that I
was building something
I was excited by.
I think it's the practicality
of solving problems
with software,
that was really appealing.
A typical day is I'll start
off working from home
or getting into the office
and reviewing code,
helping, giving advice on
how things could
be built better.
I often have meetings
with designers and
product managers on the
things that we want to build.
I support a lot of
engineers solving the
problems they have.
It's wide and varied
and I think that's
the exciting thing about
getting into
software in general.
There's a lot of space to be
a different type of engineer.
You could get excited
about solving
these really hard technical
challenging problems.
But if you're doing it without
a purpose, I lose motivation.
It's like knowing that
there's someone at the
end of the day I'm hoping
helps me focus my energy
on the problems that
do need to be solved versus
problems that don't.
I've been working on
encrypted messaging,
which is seriously important
for a number of reasons.
You take it very
seriously when you're
building those products
that allow people to communicate
safely and privately.
When you're solving a
really hard problem,
it's easy to think you're
not making any progress.
I think everyone talks
about imposter syndrome
in the industry.
If you're not making
progress and you
putting in these hours,
you start to think,
should I even be there?
Can I solve this problem?
That's a hard thing to get
over and that's probably
the worst part of the job.
Technically, I think
you're going to learn
a lot of what I do
in this course,
going through how to write code,
how to make it work,
how to make it accessible,
and to shipping it to people.
Javascript, HTML CSS, Git,
these are all
foundational that you'll
find across every web
development company.
When it comes to soft skills,
there's a lot of empathy
trying to understand other
people's perspectives.
Engineers, we care
about performance,
we care about accessibility,
we care about things
being correct.
It usually takes engineers
a long time to understand
designer's perspective or
product manager's perspective
because you think
so algorithmically,
you need to solve every problem
versus that 80
percent user problem.
I work with a fantastic designer
who actually jumps
in on the diffs and
I can ask him questions in
the code and he can code a bit.
I was talking about empathy,
he has an understanding
of the work I
do and I've got an understanding
of the work he does.
At the end of the day, it's
good to recognize that you're
a software engineering
and your job is to
bring a lot of their
vision to life.
Likewise, a designer when
get into your code and tell you
how you should best to architect
and structure your code,
you need to give advice and
you're there to support him.
When you find an issue
it's highly collaborative.
A good front-end engineer will
actually dip their
toes into back-end.
Problem-solving is
consistently hard.
Whenever you're learning
and pushing yourself,
you're going to run
into roadblocks.
Best advice is go
easy on yourself.
Going with the mentality
that your goal is to grow
and become a software
engineer or a better person.
Adopting a growth mindset to
developing is going
to be critical.
Find time for yourself.
I mean, it's not my place
to talk about the psychology
of being easy on yourself,
but that's just as
important as any
of the engineering
stuff you learn.
For me personally,
the role grows.
As you build things and
you solve problems,
you get perspective
into other problems
and it's this idea of
growing your scope.
As an engineer yourself,
how do you sort
a list and how do you
drop a list on a page?
How do you make a button work?
By the end of it,
you're working on
encrypted messaging.
I think we're at a really
exciting point in the industry,
there are a lot of new
exciting technologies.
There are a lot of new ways
and new products that
are going to be built in
the next coming
years and finding
those opportunities and solving
new problems is
deeply satisfying.